docs/framework/v5.md, before:

# RLBot v5 (Beta) Overview

RLBot v5 is the next major update to the RLBot framework bringing a host of reliability improvements and some new features to the table.
In this document we will cover:

- Our reasoning for creating v5 and an overview of its architecture
- A list of features completed/reworked/todo/removed in v5 (beta)
- A guide on how to transition from v4 to v5

## Why v5?

RLBot v4 has been the most userfriendly and stable version of RLBot yet.
It was made in 2018 when RLBot was still using DLL injection.
Later, in 2019, the collaboration with Psyonix and the official API were revealed.
Since then, there have only been minor changes and new features, which proves how well-designed v4 was.
In fact, v5 is not that different from v4.
It is primarily a rewrite and an opportunity fix the flaws of v4 that have been revealed over the years.
So here are the main reasons we made v5:

- The closed-sourced part of v4 is doing more than just communication with the Psyonix API.
  This has long prevented the community from fixing certain bugs themselves.
  Therefore we are extracting part of the closed-source part into the opens-source part of RLBot such that only the communication is closed-source.
- The closed-sourced part of v4 is written in C++.
  By rewritting the backend of RLBot in C# we hope that more people feel comfortable contributing to it.
- No more DLLs. You may not be aware, but most bots still uses a DLL to communicate directly to the RLBot backend.
  In v5, the transition to web sockets is finally complete and this allows the bot inferfaces to be improved (e.g. Python type hints are not a hack anymore).
- All languages can start matches in v4, technically, but the logic for launching of Rocket League and bots was only implemented in Python (and partially Rust).
  This discourage us from writing match starters (GUI, autoleague, etc) in other languages than Python (even CleoPetra in Java uses a Python process to start matches).
  Therefore we move this logic to the backend for v5 such that more languages can benefit from it.
- The Psyonix API made a few extra features availble to us, but we never integrated them in v4. They are integerated in v5.
- Python is very slow. The rewrite in C# has made this clear.
- The `.cfg` file format has no standard.

So while the changes to the functionality and interface are minor, the architecture and the framework's interal code is very different.
We hope these changes will make it enjoyable to work with and contribute to RLBot moving forward.


## Features of v5

Legend: ✅=done, 🟨=todo, ✨=new, 🛠=reworked/changed, ⛔=removed

- ✅🛠 First-class Windows & Linux support
  - No current plans for MacOS, as there's no way to run Rocket League without a full VM
- ✅🛠 All bots connect to core directly via the [sockets flatbuffer spec](https://github.com/RLBot/flatbuffers-schema)
  - As a consequence, adding new language support is _much_ easier - if your language can write/read
  a TCP socket, it's possible! Bonus points if your language is one of the 14 that are currently supported
  by [FlatBuffers](https://flatbuffers.dev/usergroup0.html)
- ✅🛠 Any language can start/stop/manage a match
- ✅🛠 All configs files now use the standard `toml` format.
  Example: [necto/bot.toml](https://github.com/VirxEC/python-interface/blob/master/tests/necto/bot.toml)
- ✅ Hiveminds
- ✅ Scripts
- ✅🛠 The bot configuration's `python_file` has been replaced with `run_command` and `run_command_linux`
  - 🟨 On Linux, if `run_command_linux` isn't specified, v5 will attempt to run `run_command` under Wine
- ✅✨ Multi-ball support for when there's more/less than 1 ball in a game
- ✅✨ New mutator options
  - A Knockout match can be started
  - Start with one, two, four, or six balls
  - Max 7 goals
  - Beach ball, anniversary ball, spooky cube, or the haunted dropshot ball
  - Curve ball or beach ball curve
  - Medium ball size
  - Reverse gravity
  - Tactical rumble (fyi we still can't read rumble items)
  - Boost strength 5x
  - Max time 11 minutes
- ✅✨ Freeplay matches. Useful if you want to use the Rocket League's freeplay-exclusive features
- ✅ Rendering
  - 🟨 Rendering can be toggled for individual bots
  - ⛔ Keyboard shortcuts to toggle rendering. We plan to have buttons in the GUI instead!
  - ✅✨ New `RenderAnchor`s. Attach your rendering to the location and rotation of a car or ball
  plus both an absolute and local offset. No re-rendering is required and it is _smooth_.
  Example: [video posted on Discord](https://discord.com/channels/348658686962696195/423167304956903428/1254229014084714577)
- ✅ Game state manipulation (aka state setting)
- ✅ Updated ball prediction algorithm for better accuracy in all game modes that use a ball
- ✅✨ Support for Psyonix Beginner bots
- ✅✨ More customizable Psyonix bots
- ✅✨ Override a bot name/loadout (without editing the bot configuration)
  - Use cases include: Spawning specific Psyonix bots or give Nexto your in-game name to troll friends
- ✅🛠 Generated loadouts are now created by your bot instead of a separated loadout generator script
- 🟨✨ Hot-swap your bot's loadout. Respawn your bot's car with a different loadout on command without
  restarting the match or interfering with the other bots
  - Only enabled when state setting is also enabled
- ✅✨ New data in `GameTickPacket` for every player:
  - Last known player input
  - If the player was the last player to be spectated in the match
  - Player accolades. A list of small awards/events by the player, e.g. EpicSave, Demolition, PoolShot, LowFive, etc.
  See [full list here](https://github.com/RLBot/flatbuffers-schema/blob/a5fe1788238ba8014d6fa8da3cf554b76fe48c93/rlbot.fbs#L148-L160))
- ✅🛠 Match comms and quick chat have been combined into just `MatchComm`s with an optional quick chat
  message such that both bots and humans can understand what is meant
  - ⛔ Quick chat messages are no longer restricted to a set of hardcoded options
  - ✅🛠 The `team_only` filtering finally works. No more spying on enemy chats
- ✅🛠 RLBot waits for all processes to fully boot before letting the match start
- ✅ Performance metrics (i.e. missed responses by bots)
  - ⛔ Keyboard shortcuts to toggle the performance graph. We plan to have buttons in the GUI instead!
  Currently, the menu will be shown anytime either RLBot itself or a bot is running below 100%.
- ⛔ Non-standard Tick Rates (standard is 120hz)
  - All bots are now expected to run at 120hz. If you need more time to process inputs, it's advisable to
  engineer your bot around this by, for example, using an extra asynchronous thread running complex algorithms.
- ⛔ DropshotTileInfo
  - This functionality was lost with the introduction of the Psyonix API and is removed v5. But it might return.

On top of all that, the framework is also simply significantly faster.

## Migration

Many things will feel familiar in v5, but there's several breaking changes that have been made.

- `RLBot.exe` has been renamed to `RLBotServer.exe`.
  - Instead of the entire binary being closed-source, as much of the code as possible is now open-source
  in [RLBot/core](https://github.com/RLBot/core).
  - Anyone can build `RLBotServer.exe` after making changes to the code due to `Bridge.dll` - this binary is
  closed-source due to legal restrictions around the Psyonix API, but this knew binary was built to be as minimal
  as possible while adhering to those restrictions.
- All bots are now expected to run at 120hz. If you need more time to process inputs, it's advisable to
  engineer your bot around this by, for example, using an extra asynchronous thread running complex algorithms.
- Scripts and hiveminds are now explicit features of RLBot!
- Config files have changed
  - Instead of the arbitrary `cfg` file format, we now use `toml` files. This is a standardized format that
  is easier to read and write and has better support over different languages. Many IDEs also support syntax
  highlighting for `toml` files.
  - Bots config files _must_ end in `bot.toml`. This includes hiveminds. Example valid file names include:
    - `bot.toml`
    - `super_bot.bot.toml`
    - `super_ultra.bot.toml`
  - Script config files _must_ end in `script.toml`. Example valid file names include:
    - `script.toml`
    - `super_script.script.toml`
    - `super_ultra.script.toml`
  - Other config files have no defined naming convention.
  - Bot/Script/Hivemind config file format:
    - `[Locations]` has been renamed to `[settings]`
    - `hivemind` must be set to `true` instead of `[settings]` if the bot is a hivemind
    - `python_file`, `requirements_file`, `supports_standalone`, and `use_virtual_environment` have been replaced
    with a different concept: `run_command` and `run_command_linux` are ran in a shell to start the bot.
      - Note: Bots submitted to the v5 botpack (TODO) will be expected to be packagable in a self-contained
      executable that is built from source by an automated deployment pipeline. This includes Python bots.
    - New optional value `location` - will set the working directory to something other than the directory that
    the config file is currently located in.
    - `maximum_tick_rate_preference` has been removed, every bot is expected to run at 120hz
    - `supports_early_start` has been removed, as all bots are booted as soon as possible. Bots no longer know
    their index when booting, but they do know their name & team.
    - `looks_config` and `loadout_generator` have been replaced with `loadout_config`
      - If `loadout_config` is not set, then your bot can send a `SetLoadout` message during boot-up. This is a
      direct replacement for the old loadout generator script.
    - `[Details]` has been renamed to `[details]`
    - `github` has been renamed to `source_link`
    - Example of a bot config file in v4 and v5:

      v4:

      ```cfg
      [Locations]
      name = Necto
      logo_file = ./necto_logo.png
      looks_config = ./appearance.cfg
      python_file = ./bot.py
      requirements_file = ./requirements.txt
      maximum_tick_rate_preference = 120

      [Details]
      developer = Rolv, Soren, and several contributors
      description = Necto is the official RLGym community bot, trained using PPO with workers run by people all around the world.
      fun_fact = Necto uses an attention mechanism, commonly used for text understanding, to support any number of players
      github = https://github.com/Rolv-Arild/Necto
      language = rlgym
      tags = 1v1, teamplay
      ```

      v5:

      ```toml
      [settings]
      name = "Necto"
      logo_file = "necto_logo.png"
      loadout_config = "loadout.toml"
      run_command = ".\\venv\\Scripts\\python bot.py"
      run_command_linux = "./venv/bin/python bot.py"

      [details]
      developer = "Rolv, Soren, and several contributors"
      description = "Necto is the official RLGym community bot, trained using PPO with workers run by people all around the world."
      fun_fact = "Necto uses an attention mechanism, commonly used for text understanding, to support any number of players"
      source_link = "https://github.com/Rolv-Arild/Necto"
      language = "rlgym"
      tags = ["1v1", "teamplay"]
      ```

- _All processes_ (bot, script & hivemind) are now similar to v4's concept of a `StandaloneBot`
  - This means that the only way to interface with `RLBotServer.exe` is by communicating via FlatBuffers over
  a TCP socket. By default, the server listens to `0.0.0.0:23234`. The port can be changed by passing in the
  desired port as the first argument when starting the binary, for example `RLBotServer.exe 54315`.
  - In Python specifically, there is no longer a `BaseAgent` class. Instead, you must implement the `Bot` class.
  - Must read the environment variable `RLBOT_SERVER_PORT` to know what port they can connect to the server on.
  - Must read the environment variable `RLBOT_SPAWN_IDS`. It will be a single integer for bots and scripts, but for
  hiveminds it will be a comma separated list of integers.
- Various changes have been made to the `GameTickPacket`
  - Removed `num_cars`/`num_pads` as the list of cars/pads is now only as long as the actual number of cars/pads
  - Renamed `cars` to `players`
  - Replaced `ball` with `balls` which is now a list of balls in the game
    - Note: This list _can_ have a length of zero in a normal match. It's recommended to check the length of
    the list before assuming there's a ball in the game.
  - In `PlayerInfo`:
    - Replaced `is_demolished` with `demolished_timeout`: `demolished_timeout` is a float representing the time
    until the player respawns after being demolished. It is zero if the player is not demolished.
    - Added `dodge_timeout`: A float representing the time the player has left before they can no longer dodge.
    `-1` if the player cannot dodge (e.g. because they're on the ground or the dodge time window expired).
    - Replaced `has_wheel_contact` with a new concept, `AirState`. `AirState` is defined as:

      ```cpp
      enum AirState: ubyte {
        /// All wheels are on the ground
        OnGround,
        /// When the bot is jumping,
        /// then InAir right after
        Jumping,
        /// When the bot is double jumping,
        /// then InAir right after
        DoubleJumping,
        /// When the bot is dodging,
        /// then InAir right after
        Dodging,
        InAir,
      }
      ```

    - Removed `jumped` and `double_jumped`

Commit message:

Improve v5 introduction with details on help

docs/framework/v5.md, after:

# RLBot v5 (Beta) Overview

RLBot v5 is the next major update to the RLBot framework bringing a host of reliability improvements and some new features to the table.

RLBot v5 is currently in beta.
In this beta period we will fix bugs, incorporate feedback, and potentially make minor breaking changes.
However, RLBot v5 should now be feature-complete and stable enough that people can start adopting it.

Any updates to RLBot v5 beta will be announced in the [RLBot Discord #annoucements](https://discord.com/channels/348658686962696195/352588748401410049) channel.

- If you find bugs, please report them on [Github](https://github.com/RLBot/core/issues).
- If you run into issues with v5, you can find help on Discord, either in the appropriate [language channel](https://discord.com/channels/348658686962696195/446761380654219264) or in the [#framework-dev](https://discord.com/channels/348658686962696195/423167304956903428) channel.
  There is also a "v5" tag in [#rlbot-help](https://discord.com/channels/348658686962696195/1046893399149641799).
- If you have feedback/request for v5, please let us know on [Github](https://github.com/RLBot/core/issues) in the [#framework-dev](https://discord.com/channels/348658686962696195/423167304956903428) channel.

In the remainder of this document we will cover:

- Our reasoning for creating v5 and an overview of its architecture
- A list of features completed/reworked/todo/removed in v5 (beta)
- A guide on how to transition from v4 to v5


## Why v5?

RLBot v4 has been the most userfriendly and stable version of RLBot yet.
It was made in 2018 when RLBot was still using DLL injection.
Later, in 2019, the collaboration with Psyonix and the official API were revealed.
Since then, there have only been minor changes and new features, which proves how well-designed v4 was.
In fact, v5 is not that different from v4.
It is primarily a rewrite and an opportunity fix the flaws of v4 that have been revealed over the years.
So here are the main reasons we made v5:

- The closed-sourced part of v4 is doing more than just communication with the Psyonix API.
  This has long prevented the community from fixing certain bugs themselves.
  Therefore we are extracting part of the closed-source part into the opens-source part of RLBot such that only the communication is closed-source.
- The closed-sourced part of v4 is written in C++.
  By rewritting the backend of RLBot in C# we hope that more people feel comfortable contributing to it.
- No more DLLs. You may not be aware, but most bots still uses a DLL to communicate directly to the RLBot backend.
  In v5, the transition to web sockets is finally complete and this allows the bot inferfaces to be improved (e.g. Python type hints are not a hack anymore).
- All languages can start matches in v4, technically, but the logic for launching of Rocket League and bots was only implemented in Python (and partially Rust).
  This discourage us from writing match starters (GUI, autoleague, etc) in other languages than Python (even CleoPetra in Java uses a Python process to start matches).
  Therefore we move this logic to the backend for v5 such that more languages can benefit from it.
- The Psyonix API made a few extra features availble to us, but we never integrated them in v4. They are integerated in v5.
- Python is very slow. The rewrite in C# has made this clear.
- The `.cfg` file format has no standard.

So while the changes to the functionality and interface are minor, the architecture and the framework's interal code is very different.
We hope these changes will make it enjoyable to work with and contribute to RLBot moving forward.


## Features of v5

Legend: ✅=done, 🟨=todo, ✨=new, 🛠=reworked/changed, ⛔=removed

- ✅🛠 First-class Windows & Linux support
  - No current plans for MacOS, as there's no way to run Rocket League without a full VM
- ✅🛠 All bots connect to core directly via the [sockets flatbuffer spec](https://github.com/RLBot/flatbuffers-schema)
  - As a consequence, adding new language support is _much_ easier - if your language can write/read
  a TCP socket, it's possible! Bonus points if your language is one of the 14 that are currently supported
  by [FlatBuffers](https://flatbuffers.dev/usergroup0.html)
- ✅🛠 Any language can start/stop/manage a match
- ✅🛠 All configs files now use the standard `toml` format.
  Example: [necto/bot.toml](https://github.com/VirxEC/python-interface/blob/master/tests/necto/bot.toml)
- ✅ Hiveminds
- ✅ Scripts
- ✅🛠 The bot configuration's `python_file` has been replaced with `run_command` and `run_command_linux`
  - 🟨 On Linux, if `run_command_linux` isn't specified, v5 will attempt to run `run_command` under Wine
- ✅✨ Multi-ball support for when there's more/less than 1 ball in a game
- ✅✨ New mutator options
  - A Knockout match can be started
  - Start with one, two, four, or six balls
  - Max 7 goals
  - Beach ball, anniversary ball, spooky cube, or the haunted dropshot ball
  - Curve ball or beach ball curve
  - Medium ball size
  - Reverse gravity
  - Tactical rumble (fyi we still can't read rumble items)
  - Boost strength 5x
  - Max time 11 minutes
- ✅✨ Freeplay matches. Useful if you want to use the Rocket League's freeplay-exclusive features
- ✅ Rendering
  - 🟨 Rendering can be toggled for individual bots
  - ⛔ Keyboard shortcuts to toggle rendering. We plan to have buttons in the GUI instead!
  - ✅✨ New `RenderAnchor`s. Attach your rendering to the location and rotation of a car or ball
  plus both an absolute and local offset. No re-rendering is required and it is _smooth_.
  Example: [video posted on Discord](https://discord.com/channels/348658686962696195/423167304956903428/1254229014084714577)
- ✅ Game state manipulation (aka state setting)
- ✅ Updated ball prediction algorithm for better accuracy in all game modes that use a ball
- ✅✨ Support for Psyonix Beginner bots
- ✅✨ More customizable Psyonix bots
- ✅✨ Override a bot name/loadout (without editing the bot configuration)
  - Use cases include: Spawning specific Psyonix bots or give Nexto your in-game name to troll friends
- ✅🛠 Generated loadouts are now created by your bot instead of a separated loadout generator script
- 🟨✨ Hot-swap your bot's loadout. Respawn your bot's car with a different loadout on command without
  restarting the match or interfering with the other bots
  - Only enabled when state setting is also enabled
- ✅✨ New data in `GameTickPacket` for every player:
  - Last known player input
  - If the player was the last player to be spectated in the match
  - Player accolades. A list of small awards/events by the player, e.g. EpicSave, Demolition, PoolShot, LowFive, etc.
  See [full list here](https://github.com/RLBot/flatbuffers-schema/blob/a5fe1788238ba8014d6fa8da3cf554b76fe48c93/rlbot.fbs#L148-L160))
- ✅🛠 Match comms and quick chat have been combined into just `MatchComm`s with an optional quick chat
  message such that both bots and humans can understand what is meant
  - ⛔ Quick chat messages are no longer restricted to a set of hardcoded options
  - ✅🛠 The `team_only` filtering finally works. No more spying on enemy chats
- ✅🛠 RLBot waits for all processes to fully boot before letting the match start
- ✅ Performance metrics (i.e. missed responses by bots)
  - ⛔ Keyboard shortcuts to toggle the performance graph. We plan to have buttons in the GUI instead!
  Currently, the menu will be shown anytime either RLBot itself or a bot is running below 100%.
- ⛔ Non-standard Tick Rates (standard is 120hz)
  - All bots are now expected to run at 120hz. If you need more time to process inputs, it's advisable to
  engineer your bot around this by, for example, using an extra asynchronous thread running complex algorithms.
- ⛔ DropshotTileInfo
  - This functionality was lost with the introduction of the Psyonix API and is removed v5. But it might return.

On top of all that, the framework is also simply significantly faster.

## Migration

Many things will feel familiar in v5, but there's several breaking changes that have been made.

- `RLBot.exe` has been renamed to `RLBotServer.exe`.
  - Instead of the entire binary being closed-source, as much of the code as possible is now open-source
  in [RLBot/core](https://github.com/RLBot/core).
  - Anyone can build `RLBotServer.exe` after making changes to the code due to `Bridge.dll` - this binary is
  closed-source due to legal restrictions around the Psyonix API, but this knew binary was built to be as minimal
  as possible while adhering to those restrictions.
- All bots are now expected to run at 120hz. If you need more time to process inputs, it's advisable to
  engineer your bot around this by, for example, using an extra asynchronous thread running complex algorithms.
- Scripts and hiveminds are now explicit features of RLBot!
- Config files have changed
  - Instead of the arbitrary `cfg` file format, we now use `toml` files. This is a standardized format that
  is easier to read and write and has better support over different languages. Many IDEs also support syntax
  highlighting for `toml` files.
  - Bots config files _must_ end in `bot.toml`. This includes hiveminds. Example valid file names include:
    - `bot.toml`
    - `super_bot.bot.toml`
    - `super_ultra.bot.toml`
  - Script config files _must_ end in `script.toml`. Example valid file names include:
    - `script.toml`
    - `super_script.script.toml`
    - `super_ultra.script.toml`
  - Other config files have no defined naming convention.
  - Bot/Script/Hivemind config file format:
    - `[Locations]` has been renamed to `[settings]`
    - `hivemind` must be set to `true` instead of `[settings]` if the bot is a hivemind
    - `python_file`, `requirements_file`, `supports_standalone`, and `use_virtual_environment` have been replaced
    with a different concept: `run_command` and `run_command_linux` are ran in a shell to start the bot.
      - Note: Bots submitted to the v5 botpack (TODO) will be expected to be packagable in a self-contained
      executable that is built from source by an automated deployment pipeline. This includes Python bots.
    - New optional value `location` - will set the working directory to something other than the directory that
    the config file is currently located in.
    - `maximum_tick_rate_preference` has been removed, every bot is expected to run at 120hz
    - `supports_early_start` has been removed, as all bots are booted as soon as possible. Bots no longer know
    their index when booting, but they do know their name & team.
    - `looks_config` and `loadout_generator` have been replaced with `loadout_config`
      - If `loadout_config` is not set, then your bot can send a `SetLoadout` message during boot-up. This is a
      direct replacement for the old loadout generator script.
    - `[Details]` has been renamed to `[details]`
    - `github` has been renamed to `source_link`
    - Example of a bot config file in v4 and v5:

      v4:

      ```cfg
      [Locations]
      name = Necto
      logo_file = ./necto_logo.png
      looks_config = ./appearance.cfg
      python_file = ./bot.py
      requirements_file = ./requirements.txt
      maximum_tick_rate_preference = 120

      [Details]
      developer = Rolv, Soren, and several contributors
      description = Necto is the official RLGym community bot, trained using PPO with workers run by people all around the world.
      fun_fact = Necto uses an attention mechanism, commonly used for text understanding, to support any number of players
      github = https://github.com/Rolv-Arild/Necto
      language = rlgym
      tags = 1v1, teamplay
      ```

      v5:

      ```toml
      [settings]
      name = "Necto"
      logo_file = "necto_logo.png"
      loadout_config = "loadout.toml"
      run_command = ".\\venv\\Scripts\\python bot.py"
      run_command_linux = "./venv/bin/python bot.py"

      [details]
      developer = "Rolv, Soren, and several contributors"
      description = "Necto is the official RLGym community bot, trained using PPO with workers run by people all around the world."
      fun_fact = "Necto uses an attention mechanism, commonly used for text understanding, to support any number of players"
      source_link = "https://github.com/Rolv-Arild/Necto"
      language = "rlgym"
      tags = ["1v1", "teamplay"]
      ```

- _All processes_ (bot, script & hivemind) are now similar to v4's concept of a `StandaloneBot`
  - This means that the only way to interface with `RLBotServer.exe` is by communicating via FlatBuffers over
  a TCP socket. By default, the server listens to `0.0.0.0:23234`. The port can be changed by passing in the
  desired port as the first argument when starting the binary, for example `RLBotServer.exe 54315`.
  - In Python specifically, there is no longer a `BaseAgent` class. Instead, you must implement the `Bot` class.
  - Must read the environment variable `RLBOT_SERVER_PORT` to know what port they can connect to the server on.
  - Must read the environment variable `RLBOT_SPAWN_IDS`. It will be a single integer for bots and scripts, but for
  hiveminds it will be a comma separated list of integers.
- Various changes have been made to the `GameTickPacket`
  - Removed `num_cars`/`num_pads` as the list of cars/pads is now only as long as the actual number of cars/pads
  - Renamed `cars` to `players`
  - Replaced `ball` with `balls` which is now a list of balls in the game
    - Note: This list _can_ have a length of zero in a normal match. It's recommended to check the length of
    the list before assuming there's a ball in the game.
  - In `PlayerInfo`:
    - Replaced `is_demolished` with `demolished_timeout`: `demolished_timeout` is a float representing the time
    until the player respawns after being demolished. It is zero if the player is not demolished.
    - Added `dodge_timeout`: A float representing the time the player has left before they can no longer dodge.
    `-1` if the player cannot dodge (e.g. because they're on the ground or the dodge time window expired).
    - Replaced `has_wheel_contact` with a new concept, `AirState`. `AirState` is defined as:

      ```cpp
      enum AirState: ubyte {
        /// All wheels are on the ground
        OnGround,
        /// When the bot is jumping,
        /// then InAir right after
        Jumping,
        /// When the bot is double jumping,
        /// then InAir right after
        DoubleJumping,
        /// When the bot is dodging,
        /// then InAir right after
        Dodging,
        InAir,
      }
      ```

    - Removed `jumped` and `double_jumped`
