RLBot v5 is the next major update to the RLBot framework. Currently in development,
we're bringing a host of reliability improvements and new features to the table.
Here's a sneak peek at what's coming:

## Features of v5

Legend: ✅=done, 🟨=todo, ✨=new, 🛠=reworked/changed, ⛔=removed

- ✅🛠 First-class Windows & Linux support
  - No current plans for MacOS, as there's no way to run Rocket League without a full VM
- ✅🛠 All bots connect to core directly via the [sockets spec](https://github.com/RLBot/flatbuffers-schema)
  - As a consequence, adding new language support is _much_ easier - if your language can write/read
  a TCP socket, it's possible! Bonus points if your language is one of the 14 that are currently supported
  by [FlatBuffers](https://flatbuffers.dev/usergroup0.html)
- ✅🛠 Any language can start/stop/manage a match
- ✅🛠 All configs files now use the standard `toml` format.
  Example: [necto/bot.toml](https://github.com/VirxEC/python-interface/blob/master/tests/necto/bot.toml)
- ✅ Hiveminds
- ✅ Scripts
- ✅🛠 The bot configuration's `python_file` has been replaced with `run_command` and `run_command_linux`
  - 🟨 On Linux, if `run_command_linux` isn't specified, v5 will attempt to run `run_command` under Wine
- ✅✨ Multi-ball support for when there's more/less than 1 ball in a game
- ✅✨ New mutator options
  - A Knockout match can be started
  - Start with one, two, four, or six balls
  - Max 7 goals
  - Beach ball, anniversary ball, spooky cube, or the haunted dropshot ball
  - Curve ball or beach ball curve
  - Medium ball size
  - Reverse gravity
  - Tactical rumble (fyi we still can't read rumble items)
  - Boost strength 5x
  - Max time 11 minutes
- ✅✨ Freeplay matches. Useful if you want to use the Rocket League's freeplay-exclusive features
- ✅ Rendering
  - 🟨 Rendering can be toggled for individual bots
  - ⛔ Keyboard shortcuts to toggle rendering. We plan to have buttons in the GUI instead!
  - ✅✨ New `RenderAnchor`s. Attach your rendering to the location and rotation of a car or ball
  plus both an absolute and local offset. No re-rendering is required and it is _smooth_.
  Example: [video posted on Discord](https://discord.com/channels/348658686962696195/423167304956903428/1254229014084714577)
- ✅ Game state manipulation (aka state setting)
- ✅ Updated ball prediction algorithm for better accuracy in all game modes that use a ball
- ✅✨ Support for Psyonix Beginner bots
- ✅✨ More customizable Psyonix bots
- ✅✨ Override a bot name/loadout (without editing the bot configuration)
  - Use cases include: Spawning specific Psyonix bots or give Nexto your in-game name to troll friends
- ✅🛠 Generated loadouts are now created by your bot instead of a separated loadout generator script
- 🟨✨ Hot-swap your bot's loadout. Respawn your bot's car with a different loadout on command without
  restarting the match or interfering with the other bots
  - Only enabled when state setting is also enabled
- ✅✨ New data in `GameTickPacket` for every player:
  - Last known player input
  - If the player was the last player to be spectated in the match
  - Player accolades. A list of small awards/events by the player, e.g. EpicSave, Demolition, PoolShot, LowFive, etc.
  See [full list here](https://github.com/RLBot/flatbuffers-schema/blob/a5fe1788238ba8014d6fa8da3cf554b76fe48c93/rlbot.fbs#L148-L160))
- ✅🛠 Match comms and quick chat have been combined into just `MatchComm`s with an optional quick chat
  message such that both bots and humans can understand what is meant
  - ⛔ Quick chat messages are no longer restricted to a set of hardcoded options
  - ✅🛠 The `team_only` filtering finally works. No more spying on enemy chats
- ✅🛠 RLBot waits for all processes to fully boot before letting the match start
- ✅ Performance metrics (i.e. missed responses by bots)
  - ⛔ Keyboard shortcuts to toggle the performance graph. We plan to have buttons in the GUI instead!
  Currently, the menu will be shown anytime either RLBot itself or a bot is running below 100%.
- ⛔ Non-standard Tick Rates (standard is 120hz)
  - All bots are now expected to run at 120hz. If you need more time to process inputs, it's advisable to
  engineer your bot around this by, for example, using an extra asynchronous thread running complex algorithms.
- ⛔ DropshotTileInfo
  - This functionality was never present in v4 and the placeholder name was removed v5

On top of all that, the framework is also simply significantly faster.

## Migration

Many things will feel familiar in v5, but there's several breaking changes that have been made.

- `RLBot.exe` has been renamed to `RLBotServer.exe`.
  - Instead of the entire binary being closed-source, as much of the code as possible is now open-source
  in [RLBot/core](https://github.com/RLBot/core).
  - Anyone can build `RLBotServer.exe` after making changes to the code due to `Bridge.dll` - this binary is
  closed-source due to legal restrictions around the Psyonix API, but this knew binary was built to be as minimal
  as possible while adhering to those restrictions.
- All bots are now expected to run at 120hz. If you need more time to process inputs, it's advisable to
  engineer your bot around this by, for example, using an extra asynchronous thread running complex algorithms.
- Scripts and hiveminds are now explicit features of RLBot!
- Config files have changed
  - Instead of the arbitrary `cfg` file format, we now use `toml` files. This is a standardized format that
  is easier to read and write and has better support over different languages. Many IDEs also support syntax
  highlighting for `toml` files.
  - Bots config files _must_ end in `bot.toml`. This includes hiveminds. Example valid file names include:
    - `bot.toml`
    - `super_bot.bot.toml`
    - `super_ultra.bot.toml`
  - Script config files _must_ end in `script.toml`. Example valid file names include:
    - `script.toml`
    - `super_script.script.toml`
    - `super_ultra.script.toml`
  - Other config files have no defined naming convention.
  - Bot/Script/Hivemind config file format:
    - `[Locations]` has been renamed to `[settings]`
    - `hivemind` must be set to `true` instead of `[settings]` if the bot is a hivemind
    - `python_file`, `requirements_file`, `supports_standalone`, and `use_virtual_environment` have been replaced
    with a different concept: `run_command` and `run_command_linux` are ran in a shell to start the bot.
      - Note: Bots submitted to the v5 botpack (TODO) will be expected to be packagable in a self-contained
      executable that is built from source by an automated deployment pipeline. This includes Python bots.
    - New optional value `location` - will set the working directory to something other than the directory that
    the config file is currently located in.
    - `maximum_tick_rate_preference` has been removed, every bot is expected to run at 120hz
    - `supports_early_start` has been removed, as all bots are booted as soon as possible. Bots no longer know
    their index when booting, but they do know their name & team.
    - `looks_config` and `loadout_generator` have been replaced with `loadout_config`
      - If `loadout_config` is not set, then your bot can send a `SetLoadout` message during boot-up. This is a
      direct replacement for the old loadout generator script.
    - `[Details]` has been renamed to `[details]`
    - `github` has been renamed to `source_link`
    - Example of a bot config file in v4 and v5:

      v4:

      ```cfg
      [Locations]
      name = Necto
      logo_file = ./necto_logo.png
      looks_config = ./appearance.cfg
      python_file = ./bot.py
      requirements_file = ./requirements.txt
      maximum_tick_rate_preference = 120

      [Details]
      developer = Rolv, Soren, and several contributors
      description = Necto is the official RLGym community bot, trained using PPO with workers run by people all around the world.
      fun_fact = Necto uses an attention mechanism, commonly used for text understanding, to support any number of players
      github = https://github.com/Rolv-Arild/Necto
      language = rlgym
      tags = 1v1, teamplay
      ```

      v5:

      ```toml
      [settings]
      name = "Necto"
      logo_file = "necto_logo.png"
      loadout_config = "loadout.toml"
      run_command = ".\\venv\\Scripts\\python bot.py"
      run_command_linux = "./venv/bin/python bot.py"

      [details]
      developer = "Rolv, Soren, and several contributors"
      description = "Necto is the official RLGym community bot, trained using PPO with workers run by people all around the world."
      fun_fact = "Necto uses an attention mechanism, commonly used for text understanding, to support any number of players"
      source_link = "https://github.com/Rolv-Arild/Necto"
      language = "rlgym"
      tags = ["1v1", "teamplay"]
      ```

- _All processes_ (bot, script & hivemind) are now similar to v4's concept of a `StandaloneBot`
  - This means that the only way to interface with `RLBotServer.exe` is by communicating via FlatBuffers over
  a TCP socket. By default, the server listens to `0.0.0.0:23234`. The port can be changed by passing in the
  desired port as the first argument when starting the binary, for example `RLBotServer.exe 54315`.
  - In Python specifically, there is no longer a `BaseAgent` class. Instead, you must implement the `Bot` class.
  - Must read the environment variable `RLBOT_SERVER_PORT` to know what port they can connect to the server on.
  - Must read the environment variable `RLBOT_SPAWN_IDS`. It will be a single integer for bots and scripts, but for
  hiveminds it will be a comma separated list of integers.
- Various changes have been made to the `GameTickPacket`
  - Removed `num_cars`/`num_pads` as the list of cars/pads is now only as long as the actual number of cars/pads
  - Renamed `cars` to `players`
  - Replaced `ball` with `balls` which is now a list of balls in the game
    - Note: This list _can_ have a length of zero in a normal match. It's recommended to check the length of
    the list before assuming there's a ball in the game.
  - In `PlayerInfo`:
    - Replaced `is_demolished` with `demolished_timeout`: `demolished_timeout` is a float representing the time
    until the player respawns after being demolished. It is zero if the player is not demolished.
    - Added `dodge_timeout`: A float representing the time the player has left before they can no longer dodge.
    `-1` if the player cannot dodge (e.g. because they're on the ground or the dodge time window expired).
    - Replaced `has_wheel_contact` with a new concept, `AirState`. `AirState` is defined as:

      ```cpp
      enum AirState: ubyte {
        /// All wheels are on the ground
        OnGround,
        /// When the bot is jumping,
        /// then InAir right after
        Jumping,
        /// When the bot is double jumping,
        /// then InAir right after
        DoubleJumping,
        /// When the bot is dodging,
        /// then InAir right after
        Dodging,
        InAir,
      }
      ```

    - Removed `jumped` and `double_jumped`
