docs/index.md, before:

# RLBot

Welcome to the RLBot wiki!

## Getting Started

- **[Download RLBot](http://www.rlbot.org/)**
- [Botmaking Setup Guides](http://www.rlbot.org/)

## Video tutorials

- [Setup/Python/GoslingUtils Tutorials by GooseFairy](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2MGDOTjPtl8fuoXmqxTmASW1ZtrPEXQ2)
- [C#/RedUtils tutorial by CodeRed](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLya5kk1rYdS4PqJV19B3KIH7l3P6lZPwX)
- [Java tutorial by Eastvillage](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PL0Chr9HhL2DQijgJ4b4ho4pBpxFfHXP0m)
- [Python/VirxERLU Tutorials by VirxEC](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLeo0zkmzSE-UUFV-bd2vWtqiqe2cjaQNf)
- [Python video tutorials from Learn Code By Gaming](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DwBB7871rX0)
- [Language agnostic tutorial explaining useful concepts by b2studios](https://youtu.be/DJtK0bmSMGs)

## Language-specific wikis

- **[Officially supported languages](http://rlbot.org/)**
- [Other community supported languages](/framework/supported-programming-languages#community-supported-languages)
- [Machine Learning FAQ](/botmaking/machine-learning-faq)
- [RLGym](https://rlgym.org/)

## Text tutorials

- [Shooting the ball towards or away from a target](/botmaking/shooting-the-ball-towards-or-away-from-a-target)
- [Dodges (C#)](https://tangil.me/posts/dodges)
- [State systems (C#)](https://tangil.me/posts/state)

# Commonly Used Resources

- [GameTickPacket, FieldInfo, and Controllers](/botmaking/input-and-output-data)
- [Useful Game Values (Field Size, Boost Pad Locations, and more)](/botmaking/useful-game-values)
- [Quickchats](https://github.com/RLBot/RLBotPythonExample/wiki/Quickchat)
- [Rendering](/botmaking/rendering)
- [Dropshot and Related Information](/botmaking/dropshot)
- [Appearance Customization](/botmaking/bot-customization)
- [Ball Prediction](/botmaking/ball-path-prediction)
- [The RLBotPack](https://github.com/RLBot/RLBotPack)
- [Team Match Communication Protocol (TMCP)](/botmaking/team-match-communication-protocol)
- [Troubleshooting](/troubleshooting/installation-errors)

## Physics

- [RocketSim by Zealan](https://github.com/ZealanL/RocketSim)
- [Ball Physics by @Chip](https://samuelpmish.github.io/rocket_league/ball_simulation_1/)
- [Ball Collision by @Chip](https://samuelpmish.github.io/rocket_league/ball_simulation_2/)
- [Ground Car Control by @Chip](https://samuelpmish.github.io/rocket_league/ground_control/)
- [Aerial Car Control by @Chip](https://samuelpmish.github.io/rocket_league/aerial_control/)
- [Inverse Aerial Car Control by @Chip](https://samuelpmish.github.io/rocket_league/inverse_aerial_control/)
- [Aerial ball intercept/hit by @Chip](https://samuelpmish.github.io/rocket_league/aerial_hit/)
- [How Car and Ball Interact by @Chip](https://samuelpmish.github.io/rocket_league/ball_simulation_3/)
- [How to Analyze Drivable Paths by @Chip](https://samuelpmish.github.io/rocket_league/path_analysis/)
- [The Physics Of Jumping by Impossibum](/botmaking/jumping-physics)
- [Extracting Map Meshes by Virx](/miscellaneous/extracting-map-meshes)

# Unofficial but Helpful Code Repositories

- [Utilities by @Chip](https://github.com/samuelpmish/RLUtilities)
- [GoslingUtils by GooseFairy](https://github.com/ddthj/GoslingUtils)
- [VirxERLU (aka GoslingUtils 2.0) by VirxEC](https://github.com/VirxEC/VirxERLU)
- [Source code to East's Java Tutorial](https://github.com/NicEastvillage/RLBotJavaTutorialSourceCode)
- [RedUtils by CodeRed](https://github.com/ItsCodeRed/RedUtils/)

Commit message:

Add 'edit' button, repo link, more socials, etc (#9)
* Add 'edit' button, repo link, more socials, etc'

* Remove hiden header and add some comments

* Add admonition to front page

* Fix minor spelling mistake

docs/index.md, after:

# Overview

!!! note "RLBot v5 is in beta!"
	Learn more about v5 in the [RLBot v5 Overview](/framework/v5) and start converting your bot today!

Welcome to the RLBot wiki!
RLBot is a framework for creating offline Rocket League bots.
The framework uses an official Psyonix API making our bots safe to play with and against.
This wiki primarily houses resources for bot development, but you can also find guides for users, framework documentation, and community insights.

## Getting Started

- **[Download RLBot](http://www.rlbot.org/)**
- [Botmaking Setup Guides](http://www.rlbot.org/)

## Video tutorials

- [Setup/Python/GoslingUtils Tutorials by GooseFairy](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2MGDOTjPtl8fuoXmqxTmASW1ZtrPEXQ2)
- [C#/RedUtils tutorial by CodeRed](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLya5kk1rYdS4PqJV19B3KIH7l3P6lZPwX)
- [Java tutorial by Eastvillage](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PL0Chr9HhL2DQijgJ4b4ho4pBpxFfHXP0m)
- [Python/VirxERLU Tutorials by VirxEC](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLeo0zkmzSE-UUFV-bd2vWtqiqe2cjaQNf)
- [Python video tutorials from Learn Code By Gaming](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DwBB7871rX0)
- [Language agnostic tutorial explaining useful concepts by b2studios](https://youtu.be/DJtK0bmSMGs)

## Language-specific wikis

- **[Officially supported languages](http://rlbot.org/)**
- [Other community supported languages](/framework/supported-programming-languages#community-supported-languages)
- [Machine Learning FAQ](/botmaking/machine-learning-faq)
- [RLGym](https://rlgym.org/)

## Text tutorials

- [Shooting the ball towards or away from a target](/botmaking/shooting-the-ball-towards-or-away-from-a-target)
- [Dodges (C#)](https://tangil.me/posts/dodges)
- [State systems (C#)](https://tangil.me/posts/state)

# Commonly Used Resources

- [GameTickPacket, FieldInfo, and Controllers](/botmaking/input-and-output-data)
- [Useful Game Values (Field Size, Boost Pad Locations, and more)](/botmaking/useful-game-values)
- [Quickchats](https://github.com/RLBot/RLBotPythonExample/wiki/Quickchat)
- [Rendering](/botmaking/rendering)
- [Dropshot and Related Information](/botmaking/dropshot)
- [Appearance Customization](/botmaking/bot-customization)
- [Ball Prediction](/botmaking/ball-path-prediction)
- [The RLBotPack](https://github.com/RLBot/RLBotPack)
- [Team Match Communication Protocol (TMCP)](/botmaking/team-match-communication-protocol)
- [Troubleshooting](/troubleshooting/installation-errors)

## Physics

- [RocketSim by Zealan](https://github.com/ZealanL/RocketSim)
- [Ball Physics by @Chip](https://samuelpmish.github.io/rocket_league/ball_simulation_1/)
- [Ball Collision by @Chip](https://samuelpmish.github.io/rocket_league/ball_simulation_2/)
- [Ground Car Control by @Chip](https://samuelpmish.github.io/rocket_league/ground_control/)
- [Aerial Car Control by @Chip](https://samuelpmish.github.io/rocket_league/aerial_control/)
- [Inverse Aerial Car Control by @Chip](https://samuelpmish.github.io/rocket_league/inverse_aerial_control/)
- [Aerial ball intercept/hit by @Chip](https://samuelpmish.github.io/rocket_league/aerial_hit/)
- [How Car and Ball Interact by @Chip](https://samuelpmish.github.io/rocket_league/ball_simulation_3/)
- [How to Analyze Drivable Paths by @Chip](https://samuelpmish.github.io/rocket_league/path_analysis/)
- [The Physics Of Jumping by Impossibum](/botmaking/jumping-physics)
- [Extracting Map Meshes by Virx](/miscellaneous/extracting-map-meshes)

# Unofficial but Helpful Code Repositories

- [Utilities by @Chip](https://github.com/samuelpmish/RLUtilities)
- [GoslingUtils by GooseFairy](https://github.com/ddthj/GoslingUtils)
- [VirxERLU (aka GoslingUtils 2.0) by VirxEC](https://github.com/VirxEC/VirxERLU)
- [Source code to East's Java Tutorial](https://github.com/NicEastvillage/RLBotJavaTutorialSourceCode)
- [RedUtils by CodeRed](https://github.com/ItsCodeRed/RedUtils/)
